Assuming c = 1 for simplicity, a key of length n = 60 provides adequate
security against an adversary using a desktop computer. Indeed, on a 4 GHz
processor (that executes 4 × 10^9 cycles per second) 2^60 CPU cycles require
2^60/(4 × 10^9) seconds, or about 9 years. However, the fastest supercomputer at
the time of this writing can execute roughly 2 × 10^16 floating point operations
per second, and 2^60 such operations require only about 1 minute on such a
machine. Taking n = 80 would be a more prudent choice; even the computer
just mentioned would take about 2 years to carry out 2^80 operations.

(The above numbers are for illustrative purposes only; in practice c > 1, and
several other factors—such as the time required for memory access and the
possibility of parallel computation on a network of computers—significantly
affect the performance of brute-force attacks.)

Today, however, a recommended key length might be n = 128. The difference
between 2^80 and 2^128 is a multiplicative factor of 2^48. To get a feeling
for how big this is, note that according to physicists' estimates the number of
seconds since the Big Bang is on the order of 2^58.

If the probability that an attacker can successfully recover an encrypted
message in one year is at most 2^-60, then it is much more likely that the
sender and receiver will both be hit by lightning in that same period of time.
An event that occurs once every hundred years can be roughly estimated to
occur with probability 2^-30 in any given second. Something that occurs with
probability 2^-60 in any given second is 2^30 times less likely, and might be
expected to occur roughly once every 100 billion years.

The concrete approach is important in practice, since concrete guarantees
are what users of a cryptographic scheme are ultimately interested in. However,
precise concrete guarantees are difficult to provide. Furthermore, one must be
careful in interpreting concrete security claims. For example, a claim that no
adversary running for 5 years can break a given scheme with probability better
than ε begs the questions: what type of computing power (e.g., desktop PC,
supercomputer, network of hundreds of computers) does this assume? Does this
take into account future advances in computing power (which, by Moore's Law,
roughly doubles every 18 months)? Does the estimate assume the use of
“off-the-shelf” algorithms, or dedicated software implementations optimized
for the attack? Furthermore, such a guarantee says little about the success
probability of an adversary running for 2 years (other than the fact that it can
be at most ε) and says nothing about the success probability of an adversary
running for 10 years.
